This project was done during the summer of 2020. It is my first Java and Android Studio project.
I created an android app using Android Studio. The main functionality of this app is to create and delete alarms, similar to the built-in alarm application on most smartphones. To create and delete alarms, I used the AlarmClock Android library. I also used a database to save the alarm times. In the MainActivity of the app, a RecyclerView is used to display the times of all alarms saved through the app. The ViewHolder for the RecyclerView contains the time of the alarms saved in the database. There is also a FloatingActionButton that, when clicked, adds a row in the RecyclerView reading "23:59" by default, though the alarm isn't saved. Clicking on any one of the times opens the AlarmActivity. In this activity, there is a TextView which says "Set Time For Alarm". Underneath the TextView, there are two EditTexts, where one has a hint saying "Hour", and the other saying "Minute". Underneath these, there are two buttons, labelled "SET ALARM" and "DELETE ALARM". When the "SET ALARM" button is pressed, an intent for setting an alarm to the hour and minute specified by the user in the EditTexts is called using the AlarmClock class. This saves an alarm to the time specified via the EditTexts. A method in Dao is also called to save the alarm into the database. The time of the alarm is also saved as an instance of the ViewHolder. If the user types an invalid time, an error message pops up via a Toast. When the "DELETE ALARM" button is pressed, a method from the AlarmClock class is used to delete the alarm in the system that matches the time previously typed into the EditTexts. Also, another method in Dao is called to delete the alarm from the database. The ViewHolder in RecyclerView containing that time and id is also deleted.
